In my code I attempted to make a very simple game, that was a somewhat combination of Asteroid and Pac Man. The start of this project was the hardest part, all my ideas were to complex for my abilities, and so I nailed down a simple idea. My ideas were heavily influenced by the early gaming era, and applying code to create an interactive game that runs on low resolution and movements are less extravagant than today’s video games. The heaviest influence in creating this game was my dad, because I wanted to create a game anyone can play. May dad being a teen in the 80’s; he loved the simplistic design of the old school game’s controls, and a simple mission for a game. To start I began pulling sprites and images and then figuring out how to create a variable for each image, then in the preload function getting them to load. Then creating a class for the Ghosts and Pacman, then I had to create a constructor for the Fireballs.
 	
I intended to create three ghosts at random x points along the window width. Then applying case breaks after each ghost would disappear. For PacMan I made a sprite of a ship and made three different ones (right, middle, left) for each movement. Each movement using the arrow keys would display the image being called, determining then returning to the center image. The contact between each two objects, relative to the location of Pacman, If Pacman’s coordinates assigned made contact with a fireball it was then collected, score would increase by one, and a sound alert of the capture. If ghost made contact a sound of a gun would be created and a heart would decrease in value by one.  Once the three lives are gone the game would reach an end and user refresh page for new game. 

The biggest problem I ran into was starting on a fresh new sketch and where do you start in making a new a code. As I began working I ran into my biggest problem, failing to organize my code. I learned that if you want code to be your friend, you have to make it easy to read and clutter of functions and classes in the sketch can become a real issue when finding errors and bugs. My biggest coding problem was figuring out how to check the relative positions of each object in play, and how to get them to disappear once contact is made. I tackled this task by using a constantly updating Y position as the fireballs and ghosts fall. Then for each object falling I created if statements that either eliminated a life or added a point to the score once contact was made.  Each falling object was set to an array for each that gave each new object a random X and Y. 

The movement and looping of Pacman and his ship was easy, but applying a clean and working key pressed function was one of my last hiccups. At first the arrows left and right worked but once released the ship continued to move. So using true false statements, calling movement to Pacman being true would make him move but once released set the movement to false thus holding the position. The best part was accepting code,  realizing that coding is more of an art than a math, and you can constantly update the code to make the game more interactive.  Another major lesson learned was build the code first then make adjustments, I let my creativity take ahold to early in the creation of the code and that’s what caused my organization to fail. 
